#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "Times New Roman"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing double
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style unsrt
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Paper 1 Review
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
John Henry Galino
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In his 2008 paper titled 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, Satoshi Nakamoto states that Internet commerce has become very reliant
 on having third-party institutions process electronic payments.
 According to him, this model of commerce prevents completely non-reversible
 transactions, which results to several disadvantages.
 What is needed is an electronic payment system that relies on cryptographic
 proof, which will enable non-reversible transactions and remove the said
 disadvantages.
 However, a prominent problem in electronic payment systems is 
\emph on
double-spending
\emph default
, or the possibility that a person may cheat by sending the same unit of
 digital currency to two different people.
 As such, Nakamoto presents a decentralized solution to the double-spending
 problem through a peer-to-peer network which timestamps transactions.
 In this peer-to-peer network, all transactions are announced to all participati
ng nodes.
 When a node receives a transaction, it checks for its validity and then
 places them in a block along with other transactions to be timestamped.
 The node then performs proof of work by computing a hash of the items in
 the block until it meets certain specifications.
 When such a hash has been successfully computed, the node will then broadcast
 the block to the other nodes in the network.
 The other nodes in the network will then check the validity of the transactiion
s in the block and express their acceptance by creating the next block and
 including the hash of the previous block in the computation of the next
 hash.
 These actions result to each node having a chain of blocks 
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
A 
\size normal
\emph on
blockchain
\emph default
, if you will.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 which serve as a record of the order of transactions, with the longest
 chain being considered as the correct record.
 With this scheme, an electronic payment system can be made which isn't
 reliant on third-party institutions while being able to prevent the double-spen
ding problem.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Review
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Satoshi Nakamoto's paper presents some very novel ideas.
 His
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Satoshi Nakamoto is just an alias for the author of the paper.
 As such, we don't really know the true identity of the author of the paper.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 paper shows an alternative to the current digital commerce system which
 is more private and more affordable for the buyers and sellers.
 Furthermore, the paper also shows a novel application for proof-of-work
 algorithms.
 The benefits promised by the ideas in the paper have been shown to be very
 real by present-day cryptocurrencies.
 However, despite the novelty of the paper, the paper is not without issues.
 First, the paper lacks a review of related literature.
 As such, the reader of the paper is deprived of the opportunity to know
 where the paper stands in terms of the larger body of knowledge surrounding
 it.
 Furthermore, a reader which is not familiar with the field of digital currencie
s might become confused when reading the paper as it doesn't give necessary
 background information regarding terms such as double-spending.
 Such lack of background information can be attributed to the lack of a
 review of related literature in the paper.
 Second, the idea of the peer-to-peer network proposed by Nakamoto is dependent
 on the assumption that a large number of devices will be participating
 in the network.
 Since the network depends on having honest nodes control a majority of
 the network, if there are only a few devices running the network and a
 malicious third party decides to introduce a large number of nodes which
 is controlled by them, then that third party will have the power to choose
 which transactions get accepted into a block or not, thus negating the
 decentralized aspect of the network.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"
literal "false"

\end_inset

Bonadonna, E.
 (2013, March 29).
 Networks II.
 Bitcoin and the Double-Spending Problem : Networks II Course blog for INFO
 4220.
 Retrieved 2022, from https://blogs.cornell.edu/info4220/2013/03/29/bitcoin-and-th
e-double-spending-problem/ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2"
literal "false"

\end_inset

Nakamoto, S.
 (2008).
 Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.
 .
 Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.
 Retrieved 2022, from https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-3"
literal "false"

\end_inset

Tschorsch, F., &amp; Scheuermann, B.
 (2016).
 Bitcoin and beyond: A technical survey on decentralized digital currencies.
 IEEE Communications Surveys &amp; Tutorials, 18(3), 2084–2123.
 https://doi.org/10.1109/comst.2016.2535718 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
