#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Review of Related Literature
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Real-time prediction of projectile penetration to laminates by training
 machine-learning models with finite-element solver as the trainer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Experimental testing of the penetration resistance of materials can often
 be expensive and sometimes dangerous.
 As such, computational simulations are often employed in place as a more
 affordable substitute.
 However, these simulations require heavy computer memory and computational
 time to get results.
 A combination of simulations and machine learning techniques could potentially
 reduce the costs and time needed for ballistic impact investigations.
 In this study, the authors construct a neural network and a decision tree
 to predict the residual velocity of projectiles using training data obtained
 from finite-element simulations and experimental tests.
 In the finite element simulations, 4 different projectile types were fired
 on a polyurea-steel composite laminate in 3 different angles, with initial
 speed varying from 200 m/s to 750 m/s.
 .
 The residual velocity of the bullet after hitting the laminate were then
 recorded for 20 time step intervals to produce a total of 3220 data points
 for training the models.
 The authors also conducted an experimental investigation on the penetration
 performance of polymer-aluminum composites.
 The data from this research was also used to train the models.
 Results of the study show that the neural network model trained with the
 finite-element simulation data and the experimental data was able to predict
 the residual velocities of projectiles for unseen testing cases with good
 accuracy.
 Meanwhile, the decision tree model has been found to work better with the
 finite-element simulation data than the experimental data.
 It was also found to be more stable compared to the neural network on the
 finite-element simulation data.
 However, both models have been found to be unable to predict residual velocitie
s when trying to predict unseen case configurations (e.g.
 different initial velocity, different angle of firing, etc).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Dealing with limited data in ballistic impact scenarios: an empirical comparison
 of different neural network approaches
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the research domain of high-speed collisions between solids, numerical
 simulation techniques are often used.
 Since a large number of simulations are often required for this domain,
 large resources and considerable time are often used up by numerical simulation
s.
 As such, the use of Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) in this field has
 received much attention.
 As such, this study aims to find the best neural network for the study
 of ballistic impact through a tuning performance process of 4 stages.
 In the first stage, an empirical comparison of ANN, or more specifically
 MultiLayer Perceptron (MLP), is conducted with other machine learning alternati
ves to validity of MLP in this problem domain.
 These machine learning alternatives include Radial Basis Function, Support
 Vector Machines, and Recurrent Neural Networks, and Additive White Gaussian
 Noise.
 In the second stage, different techniques were considered for working with
 a limited amount of data in MLPs.
 These techniques include Hold-out Cross Validation, K-fold Cross Validation,
 Leave-one-out Cross Validation, Bootstrap Resampling, Alternative Iterative
 and Balanced Of Cross Validation.
 The third stage is the selection of the optimal input variables for the
 MLP using Indicator of Variable Clarity, forward Stepwise Method, and Sensitivi
ty About the Mean.
 The last stage is the measurement of the quality of the neural models using
 Akaike's Information Criterion and minimum description length.
 The results of the study showed that in Stage 1, MLP performance is better
 compared to other machine learning alternatives in the domain of ballistic
 impacts.
 In Stage 2, it was found that the best technique to deal with the limited
 amount of data is a combination of K-fold Cross Validation and Additive
 White Gaussian Noise, since it showed better precision, stability and speed
 compared to the other techniques.
 For the third and fourth stage, both showed similar results.
 The two stages found that the protection's thickness and the projectile's
 velocity are fundamental variables for the learning of the network, as
 the lack of these variables in the neural model results to a deviance of
 7.65% in terms of precision.
 Similarly, the materials used by the protection and the projectiles are
 also important variables, as their lack results to a deviation of 8.91%.
 The projectile's mass, length, and radius have also been found to be relatively
 important.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Use of Artificial Neural Networks to Optimize Stacking Sequence in UHMWPE
 Protections
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
UHMWPE, or ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene, has received considerable
 attention recently due to its resistance against impacts or blasts which
 are comparable to aramid fibers [].
 As such, they have become widely used in armor applications and has become
 the leading high-performance fibers in the global industry.
 One of the main concerns of the military industry is finding the best combinati
on of UHMWPE plies in order to deal with multi-threat such as handguns,
 shrapnels, and stabbing.
 When modelling UHMWPE protections, numerical methods based from Finite
 Element Method (FEM) is often used as they are able to help understand
 the failure modes and energy absorption mechanisms.
 However, the number of configurations that can be analyed using FEM is
 low because of the computational cost required.
 Artifical Neural Networks (ANN) are a good approach to solve this limitation,
 as it has been successfully used in other engineering domains.
 The present study combines ANN, FEM models, and experimental tests in order
 to find the influence of the stacking sequence of layers in UHWMPE protections
 on their ballistic performance.
 First, an FEM model was established and then validated by experimental
 tests.
 Afterwards, the FEM model is then used to create training and test data
 for the ANN.
 For this study, the position of the layers, the weight ratio of each material,
 and the areal density were the variables studied for their influence in
 the ballistic performance of UHMWPE protections.
 The results of the study showed that the ANN developed was able to predict
 the ballistic performance of different stacking sequences successfully.
 Using the ANN, it has been observed that an improvement of 10.7% can be
 achieved without weight increase.
 As such, ANN simulations can be used to increase the ballistic performance
 with lower cost.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
